So why don't we mess
around in our app here.
I'm going to go to my index.html,
and I'm not even gonna worry
about this app element.
I'm just gonna put a canvas here.
I'm not even gonna say anything
else special about it.
And this is also note that I can
load other scripts than main here.
Typically the idea is,
I would just have one entry point,
same as our package, like main.js
would do everything I want it to do.
But let's say I want to have
another module that's interacting
with a different part of the page or
the site.
So I could make a module called canvas.js.
Does that exist yet?
No, it does not.
Let's change that.
So we can make a new file.
We can call it canvas.js.
And this is where we can put our
canvas manipulation code, for example.
Now, as you notice, there's a few
different things happening here.
Most things are in the root
directory of this project.
Well, we have our node modules,
we know about that.
There's also a public folder.
These are gonna be assets that are served
up just with the site, statically,
no processing, just you can now
go find the favicon or whatever.
Anyway, another common thing that you
see a lot of codebases do is have
a little bit more structure.
Cuz once we start adding more and
more modules, this is gonna get
a little unwieldy of having everything
in one directory, in one folder.
So what you'll often see people do,
and we can just, no, not there.
We can just do this right now,
is have [LAUGH] a src folder or
src directory where typically,
Our littler modules that we're
importing into our other modules,
all of the source code for
all these different things we might
wanna be doing often lives
in this src directory.
Now, when I just dragged and dropped
that counter.js file, which, remember,
my main.js is importing, VS Code, and
this is VS Code magic, is like, you
moved a file called counter.js that your
other files are importing as counter.js.
Do you want to now update
those import statements so
that we're importing src/counter.js?
And to which I will say, yes,
VS Code, please do your job and
make my life easier.
And so now you'll see that VS Code
automatically updated my main.js
file to import from the src directory
instead of the root directory,
the ./ that it was doing before.
So that's just some VS Code magic for
us here.
I'm also gonna put my new
empty Canvas.js in there.
And at this point, it's just asking me
if you're intending to move this or
did you just swipe on your
computer accidentally, or
are you a cat walking
on a keyboard [LAUGH]?
And so, yes, I want to move it.
It didn't ask me about any imports
because there are no imports,
cuz there's nothing to import.
So let's fix that.
Okay, so here is where I
could do this type of thing.
And now I'm actually not going
to export anything right now
because we have added this
script tag that's going to
run this script as a module
in the browser in this page.
So it's gonna run through those lines
that code and do what they say.
And let's see what happens.
Okay, so going back to Canvas,
what we're doing is,
we're setting the fillStyle to yellow,
and then we are filling a rectangle
with some numbers here,
which we'll talk about in a sec.
And so once I save my, what happened?
Did I?
I turned it into an F, cool.
Okay, once I save my file,
hopefully, My, what happened?
Something has gone awry.
Disallowed MIME type, cool.
Aha, I had not imported it, but
I had referred to it as /canvas.js and
not src/canvas.js.
This is gonna be ultimately
some Vite magic that's gonna
turn whatever path I put in here
in my src values into whatever
it's gonna ultimately resolve to
in the build, or in this case,
in the temporary build that's
running in my dev server.
And it's not really a build in
the live action freshest modules
that are running in my dev server.
So again, we live and we learn.
Yes, so VS Code did not save us.
Now we have no error and a yellow square,
well, two yellow squares.
But this one we put there, so
we can feel good about that.
Is this the most beautiful website
you've ever seen in your life?
Okay, so now we have seen essentially
that we took a blank canvas,
tabula rasa, and
we filled a yellow rectangle.
And where did we fill it?
Well, we filled it
starting at the position,
the coordinate x0, y0.
We filled a rectangle that is 100
pixels wide and 100 pixels high.
So we started the corner of the rectangle.
Imagine we're in our little MS Paint or
whatever, and
we dragged down 100 pixels and 100 pixels
over, and we painted that rectangle.
And it was yellow because
the current fillStyle was yellow.
So this is Canvas.
There's all kinds of other
things we can do with it, and
that is what we're gonna get into.
But suffice it to say,
it's great at filling rectangles.
It can also do stuff like text.
And a good thing to keep in mind that
we might be comfortable with if we're
used to positioning fixed elements and
stuff like that.
But one thing that if we're used to doing,
I don't know,
non-web data visualization or
math or things like that,
we're not always used to the way
that the Canvas coordinate system,
which is set up, which is 0,
0 is at the top-left of the element.
Well, luckily, at least x and
y are still going the directions,
but the y-axis goes down,
the values increase as you go down,
and the x-axis increases
as you go to the right.
So this is where basically
we told JavaScript, okay,
take this Canvas context,
start at 0, 0, and
draw a rectangle that is yellow,
fill it with yellow,
that is 100 pixels wide and
100 pixels tall.
So we can also do that with text.
And similarly to how we have,
can you just please wrap.
Okay, [LAUGH] similar to
how we have the .fillStyle,
we can change that after we
draw the yellow rectangle.
If we wanna draw something black now,
we have to imperatively
change the value of fillStyle,
which can cause some fun accidents.
But anyway, and then we can also set
other properties on the context,
like the font style.
And then we have, analogous to fillRect,
we have a fillText which,
for example, we could pass in
our string.js, give it an x and
a y to position the kind of
anchor of the text element.
Which again, there's all kinds of
parameters and things that we can,
there's fanciness that we can do.
And then this last one is the,
this is where the text begins,
I believe the bottom-left of the text.
And then this is how wide we want to
allow it to be at most, max width.
So if I save this now and I go back
to my instantly reloaded Vite app,
I have a much less pretty version
of the JavaScript logo that,
but we drew it,
we didn't just import it from some SVG.
So this is all to say,
we can do whatever we want on the Canvas.
We can just go nuts.